Good to see you again.
You'll now learn about neural
machine translation, and
you'll see what the architecture
of this neural network looks like.
You also learn which words the neural
network is focusing on when
translating from one language,
to another language.
So let's formalize this task.
To get started on this weeks material,
I'll introduce you to neural machine
translation, along with the model that was
traditionally used for its implementation.
The Seq2Seq model.
Then, I'll talk about some of these models
shortcomings and the solution as a lead
into the model that you'll be
using in this week's assignments.
It's exciting stuff, so let's get started.
In neural machine translation you're
using an encoder and a decoder,
to translate from one language to another.
This week you will be translating
from English to German.
To do this, you'll use a machine
translation system that has LSTMs for
both, encoding and decoding.
The traditional Seq2Seq model was
introduced by Google in 2014,
and was a revelation at the time.
Basically, it works by taking one
sequence of items such as words,
and us putting another sequence.
The way it does this is by mapping
variable length sequences to
a fixed length memory.
This feature is what made this model
a powerhouse for machine translation,
among other things.
The inputs and outputs don't
need to have matching lengths.
You might recall the vanishing
gradients problem from earlier in
the specialization.
And Seq2Seq models LSTMs and
GRUs are typically used to
avoid vanishing gradients.
An encoder decoder looks like this.
It takes in a hidden states and a string
of words, such as a single sentence.
The encoder takes the inputs
one step at a time,
collects information for that piece
of inputs, then moves it forward.
The orange rectangle represents
the encoders final hidden states,
which tries to capture all the information
collected from each input step,
before feeding it to the decoder.
This final hidden state
provides the initial states for
the decoder to begin
predicting the sequence.
One major limitation of
the traditional Seq2Seq model,
is what's referred to as
the information bottleneck.
You might have already begun to imagine
what can happen in the case of a long
sequence.
As individual inputs begin stacking
up inside the encoders final
hidden states, because Seq2Seq
uses a fixed length memory,
longer sequences become problematic.
Another issue surfaces as the later
input steps in the sequence
are given more importance.
Which you can see illustrated here,
with the last word of the sentence today.
All of this results in a model
that's performs incredibly well for
shorter sequences.
And not so well for
longer, more complex ones.
So the power of Seq2Seq which lies
in its ability to lets inputs and
outputs be different sizes,
becomes its weakness when
the input itself is a large size.
Because the encoder hidden
states is of a fixed size,
and longer inputs become bottlenecked
on their way to the decoder.
This results in lower model performance
as sequence size increases,
and that's no good.
So the issue with having one
fixed size encoder hidden states,
is that it struggles to
compress longer sequences.
And ends up throttling itself and
punishing the decoder,
who only wants to make a good prediction.
How can you be nicer to the decoder?
You could hold onto each word vector
with this individual information,
instead of trying to smash
it all into one big vector.
But this model still has obvious
flaws with memory and context.
How could you build a time and
memory efficient model that predicts
accurately from a long sequence?
This becomes possible if
the model has a way to select and
focus on the likeliest words each step.
You can think of this as giving the model
a new layer to process this information.
If you provide the information
specific to each input word,
you give the model a way to focus its
attention in the right place at each step.
And that sweet progress.
Up next you'll get a conceptual idea of
what this new layer is doing and why.
You now have an overview of
neural machine translation, and
you have a rough idea of
what's attention looks like.
You know which words
the model is focusing on when
translating from one language
to another language.